# HIPAA BREACH POLICIES FOR CLEAR HEALTH STRATEGIES, LLC

`LAST UPDATED: May 21, 2020`

## HIPAA Breach Policies Introduction

### INTRODUCTION

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), all
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, including the “Privacy Rule” at 45
CFR Part 160, 162, and 164, as amended by the Health Information Technology for
Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act, and its implementing regulations
(i.e., the Breach Notification Rule) requires Business Associates to follow
certain steps following a Breach of Unsecured PHI.

The purpose of these HIPAA Breach Policies (“Breach Policies”) is to document
Clear Health Strategies, LLC (the “Company”) compliance with Breach notification
requirements of HIPAA, including the “Breach Notification Rule” at 45 CFR Part
164, as amended.

Company has adopted the Breach Policies in order to comply with the Breach
Notification Rule and other HIPAA requirements to protect the confidentiality of
PHI.

Company is considered a Business Associate under HIPAA because it creates,
receives, maintains, or transmits PHI on behalf of health plans (each a “Covered
Entity” and collectively, the “Covered Entities”) as part of the management
service it provides.

These Breach Policies are subject in all respects to additional or more
restrictive requirements under applicable state law and any Business Associate
Agreement between Company and a Covered Entity.

#### Responsibilities

If not otherwise specified, Privacy Officer and his or her designee(s) (the
“Privacy Officer”) is responsible for implementing these Breach Policies.

Please contact Privacy Officer if you have any questions about these Breach
Policies.

### DEFINED TERMS

#### 1 HIPAA Breach Policies Defined Terms

All terms used but not otherwise defined in these Breach Policies shall have the
same meaning as those terms are defined under HIPAA. The below definitions apply
only to the use of the defined terms in these Breach Policies and not to any
other policies of Company.

“Breach” means an unauthorized acquisition, access, use, or disclosure of
Unsecured PHI that compromises the security or privacy of such information.
Except as indicated in the Breach Policy, an unauthorized acquisition, access,
use, or disclosure of Unsecured PHI is presumed to be a reportable Breach
unless, after conducting a risk assessment, Company has demonstrated that there
is a low probability that PHI has been compromised. The term “Breach” does not
include:

(a) Any unintentional acquisition, access, or use of PHI by a Workforce Member,
individual acting under the authority of Company, or a Business Associate, if
such acquisition, access, or use was made: (1) in good faith; (2) within the
course and scope of their authority with Company or a Business Associate; and
(3) such information is not further used or disclosed in a manner not permitted
by the HIPAA Privacy Rule; or

(b) Any inadvertent disclosure by either: (1) a person who is authorized to
access PHI at Company; (2) a Business Associate to another person authorized to
access PHI at Company; or (3) Business Associate; where any such information
received as a result of such disclosure is not further used or disclosed in a
manner not permitted by the HIPAA Privacy Rule; or

(c) A disclosure of PHI where Company or Business Associate has a good-faith
belief that an unauthorized person to whom the disclosure was made would not
reasonably have been able to retain such information.

“Business Associate” means an entity that provides, other than in the capacity
of a Workforce Member of Company, services for or on behalf of Company, in which
the provision of the service involves the access, use, or disclosure of PHI from
Company or from another Business Associate of Company.

“Business Associate Agreement” or “BAA” means a written agreement which sets
forth requirements to ensure that the Business Associate will appropriately use
and safeguard PHI.

“Covered Entity” means a health plan; health care clearinghouse; or a health
care provider who transmits any health information in electronic form in
connection with a transaction covered by HIPAA (see 45 CFR § 160.103).

“Discovery of the Breach” or “Discovery” of a security incident is considered to
be the first day on which the Breach is known to Company or should have been
known to Company if it had exercised reasonable due diligence.

#### 2 HIPAA Breach Policies Defined Terms

“Individual” means a person who is receiving services from Company and whose PHI
is protected by these Breach Policies. A Personal Representative of an
Individual should be treated the same as an Individual with respect to the
Individual’s PHI.

“Personal Representative” means a person who has legal authority to make health
care decisions on behalf of the Individual. For example, a parent or legal
guardian.

“Privacy Officer” means the Privacy Officer as designated by Company, or his or
her designee.

“Protected Health Information” or “PHI” means Individually Identifiable Health
Information that Company transmits or maintains in Electronic Media or any other
form or medium. PHI does not include Individually Identifiable Health
Information contained in education records or employment records held by Company
in its role as employer, and Individually Identifiable Health Information
regarding a person who has been deceased for more than 50 years. This includes
electronic PHI (“e-PHI”) and hard-copy formats of PHI.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the United States Department of Health and
Human Services.

“Subcontractor” A person to whom Company delegates a function, activity, or
service, other than in the capacity of a Workforce Member of Company.

“Subcontractor Business Associate Agreement” or “Sub-BAA” means a BAA which sets
forth requirements to ensure that the Subcontractor will appropriately use and
safeguard PHI.

“Unsecured PHI” means PHI that is not encrypted and rendered unusable,
unreadable, or indecipherable to unauthorized individuals through the use of a
technology or methodology specified by the Secretary.

“Workforce” or “Workforce Member” means employees, volunteers, trainees, and
other persons whose conduct, in the performance of work for Company is under the
direct control of Company, whether or not they are paid directly by Company.

## Section 1 HIPAA Breach Policies Applicability

### SECTION 1: APPLICABILITY

Company will receive and respond to potential Breaches of Unsecured PHI, comply
with notification requirements following a Breach of Unsecured PHI, and will
investigate potential Breaches in accordance with these Breach Policies.

The below procedures are subject to any Business Associate Agreement between
Company and a Covered Entity and state data breach notification laws. The law of
an Individual’s state of residence will apply with respect to breach analysis
and notification requirements.

(a) An acquisition, access, use, or disclosure of Unsecured PHI in a manner not
permitted under the HIPAA Privacy Rule is presumed to be a Breach that requires
notification, unless (1) an exception applies; or (2) Company demonstrates that
there is a low probability that the Unsecured PHI has been compromised, based on
a risk assessment (described below).

(b) Workforce Members should notify their appropriate supervisor(s) and/or the
Privacy Officer of unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of Unsecured PHI,
provide relevant facts regarding the unauthorized incident, and cooperate with
subsequent investigations.

(c) Company will provide notification to Covered Entity of the suspected Breach
without unreasonable delay and in accordance with the BAA.

(d) Workforce Members will be trained on how to identify and report potential
Breaches.

(e) Appropriate sanctions may be applied, up to and including termination,
against Workforce Members who fail to comply with this Breach Policy.

(f) Subcontractors of Company shall be required to notify the Company’s Privacy
Officer, without unreasonable delay, and no later than the period set forth in
the Sub-BAA between the Subcontractor and Company, upon Discovery of a potential
Breach.

(g) Company and the Subcontractor may refer to the Sub-BAA for any specific
obligations in the event of a suspected Breach.

## Section 2 HIPAA Breach Policies Breach Investigation

### SECTION 2: BREACH INVESTIGATION

#### 2.1 Discovery of the Breach

(a) Breach is “discovered” as of the first day on which Breach is known, or by
exercising reasonable diligence would have been known, to Company.

(b) Company will mitigate, to the extent practicable, known harmful effects of
the Breach.

(c) Company will report discovery of the Breach to the applicable Covered Entity
within the time period set forth in the BAA.

#### 2.2 Initial Investigation

(a) Company should work with appropriate Workforce Members, as necessary, to
uncover the facts related to the incident. Investigative actions may include,
but are not limited to, conducting Workforce Member interviews, system audits,
and site observations.

(b) Company may conclude that a Breach has not occurred if the information is
de-identified; or the use or disclosure meets one of the following regulatory
exceptions and does not result in further use or disclosure not permitted under
the HIPAA Privacy Rule:

1. Unintentional acquisition, access, or use of PHI if made in good faith and
   within the scope of authority;
2. Inadvertent disclosure by a person who is authorized to access PHI at Company
   to another person authorized to access PHI at Company; or
3. Disclosure of PHI where Company has a good faith belief that an unauthorized
   person to whom the disclosure was made would not reasonably have been able to
   retain such information.

(c) Company will comply with the applicable BAA in providing information
regarding its investigation of the Breach under this Breach Policy to the
Covered Entity.

#### 2.3 Presumption of Breach

If an unauthorized acquisition, access, use, or disclosure of PHI has occurred,
and does not meet one of the exceptions provided above, it is presumed to be a
Breach unless a risk assessment, as described below, is conducted and determines
a low probability of compromise.

## Section 3 HIPAA Breach Policies Risk Assessment

### SECTION 3: RISK ASSESSMENT

(a) If the Company does not choose to automatically provide notification to the
Covered Entity and unless notification of suspected Breaches is required by the
applicable BAA, then Company will conduct a risk assessment to determine whether
there is a low probability that the impermissible acquisition, access, use, or
disclosure compromised the security or privacy of the Unsecured PHI. If the
Company determines there is a low probability that the use or disclosure
compromised the security or privacy of the Unsecured PHI then the incident does
not constitute a Breach.

(b) The risk assessment must consider, at minimum, the four following factors:

1. The nature and extent of PHI involved, including:

   a. Types of identifiers disclosed;

   b. Likelihood of re-identification of PHI; and

   c. The broad range of potential harms flowing from disclosure to unauthorized
   individuals.

2. The unauthorized person who used PHI or to whom the disclosure was made;
3. Whether PHI was actually acquired or viewed; and
4. The extent to which the risk to PHI has been mitigated.

(c) Appropriate Workforce Member or Privacy Officer should document the findings
of the risk assessment and retain according to document retention policies and
the HIPAA Privacy Rule.

A sample Breach Risk Assessment Tool is attached as Exhibit A.

## Section 4 HIPAA Breach Policies Notification

### SECTION 4: NOTIFICATION

If the Company determines a Breach has occurred and the BAA requires the Company
to provide Breach notifications, Company will notify the appropriate parties in
accordance with these Breach Policies and any requirements under the BAA. If the
BAA does not require Company to provide Breach notifications or if the Covered
Entity decides to provide the notifications despite the BAA, Company will not
provide any notifications of the Breach.

A sample Breach Notification Letter is attached as Exhibit B.

#### 4.1 Notification to Individuals

Following the discovery of a Breach, Company will notify the Individual(s) whose
Unsecured PHI has been or is reasonably believed by Company to have been,
accessed, acquired, used, or disclosed as a result of such Breach. Notification
to an Individual will comply with the following requirements for general,
substitute, and urgent notice.

##### General Notice

(a) Company will provide the notification without unreasonable delay and in no
case later than 60 calendar days after Discovery of the Breach.

(b) If the Covered Entity has elected to provide automatic notification, or the
risk assessment determines that a Breach has occurred, Company will provide
written notice to the affected Individual or:

1. If the Individual is deceased, the next of kin or Personal Representative;
2. If the Individual is incapacitated/incompetent, the Personal Representative;
   or
3. If the Individual is a minor, the parent or guardian.

(c) Written notification will be in plain language at an appropriate reading
level with clear syntax and language with no extraneous materials. Americans
with Disabilities Act and Limited English Proficiency requirements must be met.

(d) Written notification will contain the following information:

1. A brief description of what occurred with respect to the Breach, including to
   the extent known, the date of the Breach and the date on which the Breach was
   discovered;
2. A description of the types of Unsecured PHI that were disclosed during the
   Breach;
3. A description of the steps the affected Individual should take in order to
   protect himself or herself from potential harm caused by the Breach;
4. A description of what the Company is doing to investigate and mitigate the
   Breach and to prevent future Breaches;
5. Instructions for the Individual to contact the Company (toll free phone
   number, email, website, or postal address); and
6. Any other elements required by applicable state law.

(e) Company will consult with the Covered Entity regarding any other information
to be included in the notification and to obtain Covered Entity’s approval prior
to distributing the notification.

##### Substitute Notice

In the case where there is insufficient or out-of-date contact information:

(f) Fewer than 10 Individuals: A substitute form of notice will be provided,
such as a telephone call.

(g) More than 10 Individuals: Company will:

1. Post a conspicuous notice for 90 days on the homepage of its website that
   includes a toll-free number; or
2. Provide notice in major print or broadcast media in the geographic area where
   affected Individual(s) can learn whether their Unsecured PHI is possibly
   included in the Breach. Company will also include a toll-free number in the
   notice.

##### Notice In Urgent Situations

If Company determines the affected Individual should be notified urgently of a
Breach because of possible imminent misuse of Unsecured PHI, Company will
consult with the Covered Entity and may, in addition to providing notice as
outlined in items above, contact the affected Individual by telephone or other
means, as appropriate.

#### 4.2 Notification to the Secretary

Following the discovery of a Breach of Unsecured PHI, Company will notify the
Secretary of such Breach in the following manner:

(a) Fewer than 500 Individuals: Company will record the Breach in the Breach
Notification Log, and no later than 60 days after the end of each calendar year,
provide notification to the Secretary in the manner specified on the HHS
website.

(b) 500 or more Individuals: Notice will be provided by Company without
unreasonable delay, and in no case later than 60 days from the Discovery of the
Breach, to the Secretary in the manner specified on the HHS website.

#### 4.3 Notification to the Media

**More than 500 Individuals:** Notice will be provided to prominent media
outlets serving that state or jurisdiction. Company will make such media contact
pursuant to applicable media or communications policies. Company will provide
notice without unreasonable delay and in no case later than 60 days after
Discovery of the Breach.

#### 4.4 Potential Delays to Notification Required by Law Enforcement

(a) Company will delay notification if a law enforcement official states that
notification would impede a criminal investigation or would cause damage to
national security.

(b) Company will delay the notification as specified in a written statement from
law enforcement or, if no written statement is provided, for not more than 30
days from the date that Company is in receipt of oral notification from law
enforcement. Company will document any such oral communication in writing.

A sample Breach Notification Log is attached as Exhibit C.

## EXHIBIT A

### SAMPLE – BREACH RISK ASSESSMENT TOOL

Privacy Officer

Start Date

End Date

Department

Occurrence Date

Discovery

Date

Incident

Location

Date Reported

Number

of Affected

Individuals

DETERMINATION OF BREACH

1. Was information acquired, accessed, used or disclosed?

If no, a Breach has not occurred

2. Is the information involved in the incident PHI?

If no, a Breach has not occurred

3. Is the incident a HIPAA Privacy Rule violation?

If no, a Breach has not occurred

4. Is the PHI involved secure (i.e., encrypted, otherwise rendered unusable, or
   unreadable to unauthorized individuals)?

If yes, it is unlikely that a Breach has occurred

DETERMINATION OF EXCEPTION

Does the incident fall under one the following exceptions: (If yes, a Breach has
not occurred)

1. A good-faith, unintentional acquisition, access, or use of PHI by a Workforce
   Member, acting under the authority of Entity, if such acquisition, access, or
   use was made within the scope of authority and does not result in the further
   use or disclosure in a manner not permitted under the Privacy Rule;

​​❑ Yes ❑ No ​

2. An inadvertent disclosure of PHI by a person authorized to access PHI at
   Company to another person authorized to access PHI at Company, and the
   information received is not further used or disclosed in a manner not
   permitted under the Privacy Rule;

​​❑ Yes ❑ No ​

3. A disclosure of PHI, for which Company has a good-faith belief that an
   unauthorized individual, to whom the impermissible disclosure was made, would
   not have been able to retain the information.

​​❑ Yes ❑ No ​

### SAMPLE – BREACH RISK ASSESSMENT TOOL

Please Note:

An acquisition, access, use, or disclosure of Unsecured PHI in a manner not
permitted under the HIPAA Privacy Rule is presumed to be a Breach requiring
notification unless an exception above is met or unless a low probability that
the

PHI has been compromised is demonstrated by the Risk Assessment below.
(Automatic notification of a presumed Breach is permitted to avoid performing a
risk assessment)

RISK ASSESSMENT

\*Risk Assessment factor required under HIPAA.

\*1. What is the nature and the extent of the Breach of PHI involved in the
incident? 1a. What sensitive PHI is involved (e.g., HIV/AIDS information, mental
health, or substance abuse)?

1b. What financial information is involved (e.g., SSN, credit card, or bank
numbers)?

1c. What is the likelihood that the data could be re-identified on the basis of
the context AND ability to link the data with other available information (e.g.,
news stories, public records, unique traits)?

\*2. Who used the PHI or to whom was the impermissible disclosure made?

2a. Does the person in receipt of the PHI have an obligation to protect the
information (e.g., another entity governed by HIPAA)?

\*3. Was the PHI actually acquired or viewed?

SAMPLE – BREACH RISK ASSESSMENT TOOL

12

\*4. To what extent has the risk to the PHI been mitigated?

4a. What corrective actions have been taken?

4b. Has the PHI been returned, remotely wiped, or destroyed?

4c. Has the unauthorized recipient(s) of the PHI provided satisfactory
assurances that the information will not be further used or disclosed or will be
destroyed?

5. What employee, department, and/or Workforce Member is responsible for the
   Breach?

6. What applicable safeguards were in place prior to the incident (e.g., locked
   file cabinets, badge entry, encryption, firewalls, passwords, biometrics, or
   other technological barriers)?

7. In the following questions, the probability that PHI has been compromised
   generally increases, moving left to right, with the last response having the
   highest probability of compromise.

7a. Method of incident (circle one):

Verbal Paper Electronic

7a.1. If Electronic (circle one):

Desktop Portable Device Server

7b. Recipient(s) of PHI (circle one):

Internal Workforce External Workforce Public/Unknown

7c. Circumstances of incident (circle one):

Unintentional Lost/Theft Hack/Malicious/Targeted Theft

7d. Location of PHI subsequent to incident (circle one):

Returned Destroyed Unknown Re-Disclosed

7e. Safeguards (circle one):

De-Identified Encrypted Password None

Redacted Protected

7f. Future risk (circle one):

None/Destroyed Re-Identifiable Re-Disclosed

8. What additional facts, specific to this incident, are notable in determining
   the risk of harm?

FINAL DETERMINATION

Based on this risk assessment, Company has determined:

​​❑ ​There is a low probability that the PHI has been compromised and,
therefore, Company is not required to provide notification under HIPAA.\*

​​❑ ​The probability that the PHI has been compromised is greater than “low”
and, therefore, Company will provide notification under HIPAA.\*

- Notwithstanding this Final Determination, Company should review its Business
  Associate Agreement(s) or other contractual agreements with its customers to
  determine whether any other action is required by Company and/or its
  customers, including but not limited to specific mitigating measure and/or
  reporting.

Approved by:

Privacy and/or Security Official:

Date:

Print Name:

## EXHIBIT B

### SAMPLE – BREACH NOTIFICATION LETTER

> [LETTERHEAD]
>
> [DATE]

[ADDRESS OF PATIENT]

[ADDRESS OF PATIENT]

[ADDRESS OF PATIENT]

Dear [Patient Name]:

I am writing to you about a recent potential disclosure of your personal
information (“PHI”) from [Company] (the “Company”), which occurred on or around
[INSERT DATE]. We became aware of this incident on [INSERT DATE].

​​✔ ​[INCLUDE FACTUAL DESCRIPTION OF THE INCIDENT]

The type of PHI about you that was involved includes:

​​✔ ​[INCLUDE LIST OF TYPES OF PHI THAT WAS BREACHED (SUCH AS WHETHER FULL NAME,
SSN, BIRTH DATE, HOME ADDRESS ACCOUNT NUMBER, DIAGNOSIS, OR DISABILITY CODE WERE
INVOLVED]

The Company has conducted an investigation of the events, including a review of
relevant information and documentation, and has conducted meetings and
interviews with individuals having knowledge of the events. In light of this
investigation, we have taken the following actions:

​​✔ ​[LIST REMEDIAL STEPS TAKEN TO MITIGATE HARM]

If you have any questions or would like any additional information, you may
contact us using the following information:

[Practice]

Attn: Privacy Officer

[INCLUDE ANY POTENTIAL STATE-SPECIFIC BREACH NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS IF BREACH
INVOLVES MORE THAN PHI]

[INCLUDE TEXT BELOW IF INFORMATION THAT COULD BE USED TO PERPETUATE AN IDENTITY
THEFT IS INVOLVED]

[To help ensure that this information is not used inappropriately, we encourage
you to request a credit report. To do so you may call the toll-free numbers of
anyone of the three major credit bureaus (below) to place a fraud alert on your
credit report. This can help prevent an identity thief from opening additional
accounts in your name. As soon as the credit bureau confirms your fraud alert,
the other two credit bureaus will automatically be notified to place alerts on
your credit report, and all three reports will be sent to you free of charge.

​​✔ ​Equifax: 1-800-525-6285; www.equifax.com; P.O. Box 740241, Atlanta, GA
30374-0241.

​​✔ ​Experian: 1-888-EXPERIAN (397-3742); www.experian.com; P.O. Box 9532,
Allen, TX 75013.

​​✔ ​TransUnion: 1-800-680-7289; www.transunion.com; Fraud Victim Assistance
Division, P.O. Box 6790, Fullerton, CA 92834-6790.]

The Company has also provided a membership for one year to [credit monitoring
services].

The Company takes very seriously our role of safeguarding your personal
information and using it in an appropriate manner. Accordingly, we apologize for
any stress and worry this situation may have caused you and we assure you that
we are doing everything we can to rectify the situation.

Sincerely,

## EXHIBIT C

### SAMPLE – BREACH NOTIFICATION LOG

A record of the investigation of the reported Incident or potential Breach as
well as the risk assessment to determine notification requirements should be
retained in the file corresponding to the file number in this Breach
Notification Log.

| File # | Date of Discovery | Date of Reported Incident | Brief Description of Reported Incident/Breach | Was Written Breach Assessment Completed | Did Breach Occur (Y/N) | Individuals | HHS | Other Covered Entity | Actions Taken: Resolutions Steps |
| ------ | ----------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------- | --- | -------------------- | -------------------------------- |
|        |                   |                           |                                               |                                         |                        |             |     |                      |                                  |
|        |                   |                           |                                               |                                         |                        |             |     |                      |                                  |
|        |                   |                           |                                               |                                         |                        |             |     |                      |                                  |

\*A description of what happened, including a description of the types of
Unsecured Protected Health Information that were involved in the Breach (such as
full name, Social Security number, date of birth, home address, account number,
etc.).

\*\*Notice must be provided to a prominent media outlet only in the event of a
Breach of Unsecured PHI involving more than 500 residents of a state or region.
